Hey Sandi, look, I've been baking.
I'm not sure I've totally nailed it,
I mean, I've put 'em in the oven
and then completely forgot about them.
-That's brilliant!
-Is it?
Yeah, it's the theme of the week,
forgotten bakes.
[chuckles] Sometimes it's like
I'm working on a psychic level.
Yeah, that's certainly one explanation.
I've gotta go, I've left the bath running.
[Sandi] This time...
-Don't leak.
-Don't leak, don't leak.
...it's a blast from the past,
with forgotten bakes.
Who has ever heard of this before?
[Sandi] A sweet and savoury signature...
I've literally dropped a clanger.
...a traditional technical tart...
It's raw.
...and a grand Victorian showstopper...
Don't drop it.
...that demands the utmost finesse.
[gasps]
[theme music playing]
Quarter-finals are here.
Competition is on now. It's quite intense.
Final five.
It's very exciting. I can't actually
believe I'm still here. It's great.
It's a bit weird. You're like,
oh, my God, where is everyone?
It feels different now. It's gonna be
a lot harder, we know what's riding on
how we perform in each bake and, yeah,
I think everyone's feeling it now.
Over the next two days,
I just need to be consistent,
just bang out three good bakes,
and I should be fine.
Let's see what happens, innit?
[Noel] Morning, bakers.
This week is all about forgotten bakes,
it's those classic creations of the past,
which lately may have been,
oh, I don't know, overlooked.
[Noel] For your signature challenge,
Prue and Paul would love you
to make a Bedfordshire Clanger.
It's a bit like a Cornish pasty,
except this was for a farm worker's lunch,
as opposed to a tin miner's lunch.
[Noel] Made from suet pastry,
your clanger should be sweet
at one end, savoury at the other,
with a sneaky pastry wall,
dividing the two,
assembled by a tiny pastry builder,
called Neville.
You worry me.
The judges would like your 2017 take
on this traditional recipe,
any flavours that you like, you've got two
hours to make four Bedfordshire Clangers.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake.
[exhales]
Clanger's a weird name. [snickers]
The clanger? This is not
the kind of baking I like to do.
[laughs]
I'm not, no, I'm not really into
making clangers, no.
[Steven] Conceptually, I think
it works really well,
you know, savoury and the sweet,
your entire meal in one,
I mean, I suppose
it's a bit like aeroplane food.
Just gotta deliver on this, haven't I?
Not drop any clangers. I'm here all week.
[laughs]
[Prue] A clanger, it's a bit
like a Cornish pasty,
except it's long and thin
and sausage-shaped,
‘cause it has to contain two fillings.
One of the dangers
is getting the fillings right,
so that they're not too wet
and will leak out.
The other danger is trying
to overcompensate for that,
and so they'll make
their fillings too dry.
You don't want a stodgy clanger.
And the key thing about the clanger
is the pastry itself.
It must be made with suet.
If the pastry's too flimsy
and it breaks apart,
it indicates that they haven't
worked the dough enough.
Overmixed, it'll be like rubber and
you'll break your teeth getting into it.
It's finding that balance between the two.
Just rubbing in my butter, into my suet,
which is that disgusting-looking
thing there, looks like bait,
like, or worms or something, doesn't it?
[Noel] Suet is a fat found around the
loins and kidneys of cows and sheep.
[Sophie] That yummy fat.
[Noel] When used to make pastry,
it creates a soft texture,
firm enough to hold its shape when filled.
It's replacing butter or lard,
or whatever you decide to use.
I think they originally used it because
it was so much cheaper than butter.
It's quite similar to other pastries,
try not to overwork it.
-Hello, Steven.
-Good morning.
So, Bedfordshire Clanger.
We're going Mediterranean,
lots of herbs and spices.
[Noel] Steven's spicy clangers will be
filled with feta and onion at one end,
and orange blossom baklava at the other.
What sort of colour
are you gonna get on your pastry?
This colour, this colour, or this colour?
Yeah, there you go.
-And I think it'll be more Prue.
-Prue.
-Okay.
We are preparing a station for rolling.
-Can I sprinkle some?
-Yeah.
Well, do you want me to show you
how to do it like a baker?
Oh, go on, then.
So, you've gotta pinch,
and then you... You just do this.
See, I obviously wasn't going to
soil my hands, for this.
-Good morning, Liam.
-Morning.
Hi, Liam.
So, I want to know about your pastry.
[Liam] I want the pastry
to be relatively short, like, flaky
so melt-in-the-mouth sort of situation,
but I want it to be, like,
robust enough to keep the fillings in.
[Sandi] Liam's pastry will melt away
to reveal flavours
inspired by his favourite pizza toppings.
A pesto chicken
and mozzarella savoury filling
will sit alongside
an apple and plum sweet.
‘Cause it's like pizza-inspired, I'm doing
like, some dipping sauces as well.
-Who has dipping sauces with a pizza?
-I do.
-[Paul] What?
-What?
-You have dipping sauces with pizza.
-[Noel] Yeah, you do.
-No, you don't.
-[Noel] You do these days, yeah.
[Paul] Oh, this youth of today.
I know.
This is a modern take,
so let's see what it's like.
[Sandi] Traditionally,
Bedfordshire Clangers
had a meat, potato
and diced veg filling at one end,
with apple and jam at the other.
It's vital the bakers make an equally
brilliant, sweet and savoury marriage.
It's a really cool concept, but it's just
a pasty with a sweet and savoury side.
Mmm.
So, it's nothing like that
ground-breaking, no disrespect, but...
[laughs]
The people of Bedfordshire
will be up in arms.
The main bit of cooking
is the caramelised onion,
so I've gotta get that on ASAP.
I'm going for Camembert, rocket, pine nuts
and caramelised onions.
It's kind of a posh take
on a cheese and pickle.
[Noel] Stacey's the only baker
using a wet filling in her clangers.
Her cinnamon custard will surround the
fresh blueberries and apple of her sweet.
How are you containing
that little river of custard?
[Stacey] Well, this particular custard
is quite thick.
When it's inside, do you think
it'll loosen up?
I've had it, a bit of a leaky
clanger issue over the week.
It's been quite stressful,
I've gotta tell you.
When it's in, I'm walking away
from the oven,
I don't even wanna see
what's going on in there.
-Okay, well, good luck, Stacey.
-Thank you very much, I'll see you later.
Thank you very much indeed.
-Sounds delicious.
-Hope so.
[Prue] Sounds good.
[Noel] Whilst most of the bakers
are sticking to familiar flavours,
some are taking inspiration
from further afield.
[Sophie] This is the char siu.
Oh, I love this marinade.
It's got all the yummy sauces,
so there's hoisin, soy sauce, rice wine
vinegar, loads and loads of cool stuff.
[Noel] Sophie's char siu marinade
will flavour
the pork loin in her savoury filling,
which will be complemented
by a banana and pecan praline sweet.
Interesting that you've chosen char siu.
And you've practised this?
Couple of times, yeah.
-Confident?
-Yeah, yeah.
[Paul] You do know
it's semi-final week next week?
I know, I know.
You know, I'm just
taking every week as it comes,
because I don't wanna be disappointed.
Hope for the best, expect the worst.
Good luck, Sophie.
-Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Good luck, Sophie.
[Sandi] Sophie isn't the only baker
giving her clanger an exotic twist.
I really enjoy Mexican food,
so it's gonna be a Mexican bean burrito,
Bedfordshire Clanger's gone on holiday.
[Sandi] Kate's burrito-inspired clanger
will marry
her vegetable chilli savoury filling
with a Caribbean banana
rice pudding sweet.
[Kate] I think Sophie's using banana.
[Sophie] Either apple
or banana works well.
You don't get too much fluid coming off it
so, yeah, it doesn't surprise me
if there's lots of banana and apple
doing the rounds.
[Steven] I haven't had a problem
with those clangers leaking in the oven,
but my baklava is quite dry.
There's no fresh fruit in there to burst,
so maybe it was the right thing to do.
Bakers, you are halfway through
your signature challenge.
[gasps] Halfway?
So, as Oasis would say,
"Don't look back in clanger."
That was terrible.
He's getting funnier every week.
Have you noticed?
[Noel] With multiple clangers
to be filled, assembled and sealed,
time management
in the final hour is crucial.
[Stacey] I think we're ready for action.
It's pastry time.
This is my pastry, which has been rested.
Now I'm gonna start assembling.
Fill it, roll it over, egg wash.
The big thing is, no leaking.
I've measured it, but it's not precise.
Just measured it
so I look like I know what I'm doing.
[laughs] You know, all the gear,
and no idea.
[Noel] Originally, Bedfordshire Clangers
comprised one-third sweet,
to two-thirds savoury.
Steven is the only baker
sticking rigidly to this tradition.
[Steven] The sweets will sit here
and the savoury will sit here.
That's so sweet, your little Berlin Wall
that you've done in the middle there.
I was gonna say Trump Wall,
but I don't think people...
Trump Wall, no.
-Yeah, oh, you can say it.
-Entirely solar-panelled.
It stops the sweet and
the savoury melanging in the middle.
God forbid you would have
a sweet and savoury melange.
I'm in a bit of a rush.
[Stacey] I need to concentrate
on my custard.
[Stacey] Have you started them?
Yeah, yeah, I've got two done already.
-[Stacey] Are they in the oven?
-No, no, no, no.
[Sophie] I'm scoring it,
just like you would for bread,
'cause there is some expansion.
I'm just doing the slashes.
[Sandi] Traditionally, slashes were placed
on either end of the clangers,
to differentiate between sweet
and savoury.
I've got my little pig, that's my pork,
then I've got a little banana.
You don't wanna be tucking into
your sweet end when you want your savoury.
That's my sweet.
I haven't got time.
Oh, my God, oh, my God.
Right bakers, half an hour, half an hour.
[Stacey] I haven't spent enough time
checking they're not gonna be leaky.
You're not gonna leak,
you're not gonna leak,
and behave yourself.
Going in, can't wait.
They take about 25 minutes,
which is exactly what I have.
I think one of them's gonna leak.
I'm really, really, rushing.
They're probably gonna get
a bit less than they should.
Boom. A little bit late, I might say.
-Don't leak.
-[Sandi] Don't leak. Do not leak.
[Stacey] Let's just do 15 minutes
and see what happens. Oh.
-Are you all right?
-Let's eat Camembert.
Oh, cheese!
Bakers... [making bird sounds]
-What are you doing?
-I'm being a Clanger.
-[chuckles]
-You've got 15 minutes, 15 minutes.
[imitates bird]
[sighs]
I can't look.
Ooh, ooh, there's a bit of browning.
There's a bit of browning.
[Stacey] Do you know what?
If they do leak,
but they look all right and they
taste all right, then it'll be okay.
One is definitely gonna leak.
No leakage so far, so...
[Kate] They need longer
than we've got left.
They're leaking.
[Sophie] Mmm, they've cracked
a little bit more than I'd want.
They look good, mmm,
they smell nice though.
Yeah.
Mine are massive, I've got a huge clanger.
[snickers]
Mmm, oh, the cheese.
I'm very upset about that.
[Liam] I'm just making my dipping sauces.
[Kate] It's not cooking, at all.
What are you, temperature
you're doing yours at?
-240.
I'm literally just hammering it.
What do you want, 240?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Go.
Brill, okay, thank you.
Bakers, you have five minutes left,
just five minutes.
We've got five minutes?
Oh, my God, they're not gonna be done.
Oh, my God, two are leaking. Oh, three
are leaking, they're all bloody leaking.
Oh, dear. We have significant leakage
on all of them.
[Steven] I think we're gonna take it down
to the last minute.
One more minute on high.
[Kate] My main worry is that
I'm not gonna be able to serve them.
Highly embarrassed. What a disaster.
Bakers, you have one minute,
one minute left.
Right, out they come.
[Steven] They are not pretty.
Massive, aren't they?
[exhales]
Oh, they would've been a lot better
if they hadn't all cracked open.
[Liam] Where's my sauce pots?
Oh, my God. Oh.
This is hot syrup.
This is how baklava is made.
[Kate] They're really not done.
[Kate gasps]
Oh. Oh. Oh, my God, what's just happened?
I've literally dropped a clanger.
Oh, my God, that's actually
the worst thing that could've happened.
Bakers, that is the end
of your signature challenge.
Please place your clangers
at the end of your stations.
Kate, pick yours up off the floor.
Oh, my God. Disaster.
[Steven] Oh, Kate.
[Noel] The bakers' clangers must now face
the judgement of Paul and Prue.
This one ends up on the floor,
and they could've done
with a bit longer in the oven as well,
but I ran out of time at the end.
They do look a bit of a mess.
Never mind, maybe it'll all be redeemed
because they will be so delicious.
But how is he meant to tell
which end he's eating?
Well, it was going to have decoration on,
but again, time.
You ran out of time.
[Paul] The pastry's quite tough.
[Prue] But that's because it's not cooked.
You needed more seasoning in there.
You get a texture of rice,
and that's pretty much what you get.
It's a shame. Right, the sweet.
I really like that, for rice pudding.
It's not too claggy, isn't it?
That is properly good.
I think nearly all your problems
come down to underbaking.
The pastry's just not right.
-[Paul] Thank you.
-Okay.
When you look at the uniformity,
it's there.
Great colour, the cuts are distinct.
I think you've done a great job.
-They look very, very good.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-Wow, that's delicate to pick up, that.
Ooh, lovely. Huh, you're so mean. So mean.
You are so good at flavour.
Lovely pesto, bang.
And that pastry is so, so delicate,
I mean, you can barely pick it up.
[Prue] Just perhaps not quite
robust enough for a clanger.
Are you gonna try the dip?
Do you know, it's perfectly all right,
but Mediterranean flavours are so strong,
-you really don't need it.
-[Paul] Mmm. No, I agree.
Right, the sweet.
The flavours are very, very good.
I think the, the balance
to the fruit is excellent.
The pastry is so light, though.
Next time, work that pastry
a little bit more. Okay?
-Cool.
-[Paul] Thank you.
Lovely colour, like the decoration, and...
I love the pig. Love, love, love the pig.
-[Paul] Yeah. Have you scored this?
-Yes.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-It's weakened it slightly there.
-[Sophie] Yep.
-But it, it's robust. Right.
[Paul] The pastry's
a little bit too thick.
I think it's baked well, it's spongy,
which is what it should be,
just think it's a little bit too thick.
[Prue] I'm a bit disappointed
in the filling,
because it's sort of,
predominantly soy flavour.
-Yeah.
-I'm not getting much else.
[Paul] Right.
Lovely flavour, bit dry.
Okay.
With the fact that your pastry's
still thick, that doesn't help.
-[Sophie] Yeah.
-It's just a bit of a shame.
You've been desperate
to get rid of those, haven't you?
Do you not have these in your bakery?
Clearly not.
[Paul] It's not very robust, though...
[Steven] No.
[Paul] If you're carrying that
into a field.
It's very good, and I think
it's the right texture.
It's moist without being sloppy.
Mmm.
[Paul] Beautiful flavour.
I love the spices, the blends.
-Mmm.
-It's a proper monstrous meal,
it's gorgeous. Now, looking
at the pudding, this is the baklava.
[Steven] Yeah.
-Mmm.
-I think that's absolutely delicious.
[Paul] I just think it's totally the wrong
shape, it's, it's almost collapsed,
but the texture of the pastry
is very good.
-Thank you, Steven, delicious.
-Thank you very much. Thank you.
There's been a little,
erm, blueberry explosion,
so we know which end is sweet, even if
you hadn't put sweeties on.
[Paul] Go in here.
I think you've got a great texture there.
The pastry is nice and flaky,
it's a little bit soft,
as I'd expect from a suet crust.
That, that's lovely, that.
The pastry's flaky, it's light,
it's got lots of flavour,
it's got a nice crisp on the outside,
and it's baked all the way through.
The caramelised onions
are the heroes in there.
Beautiful flavours. The sweet.
[Prue] I'm amazed
that you got such good texture,
because the blueberries were raw,
and I rather expected them to sog up the
bottom of the pastry, but they haven't.
-That, young lady...
-Mmm.
-...is absolutely delicious, that side.
-[Prue] Ooh, well done.
-[Sandi] Yes.
-[Prue] It's a great clanger.
-Feel good?
-Thank you.
-Feel great, thank you very much, guys.
-Go, girl.
-Thank you.
[Stacey] What a result. I don't know
what happened in there,
but it's not what happens
when I'm at home,
I don't think it ever tasted
that good before.
[Steven] Pretty good result, you know.
Okay, didn't look like a clanger.
Welll... What does
a clanger look like, anyway?
It's a little pink mouse,
as far as I'm concerned.
When Prue says I'm really good
at flavours, it's like, yeah, er, yeah.
But, there's always like one thing
that I sort of fall short on.
But then that's good for me, because
there's always something to improve on.
Well, do you know what,
you've gotta keep laughing,
if you don't laugh, you'll cry, won't you?
It's not the end of the world.
I dropped a clanger but, you know,
we move on from it, don't we?
A little bit disappointing. Had this been
a couple of weeks ago
I would've considered that to be a,
an okay judging,
but now, that puts me
in a really sort of bad position.
[thunder cracking]
[Sandi] There are now
just two challenges to go,
before Paul and Prue decide
which baker's heading home,
and which four will make the semi-final.
Right, bakers, it is time to test you
on a classic technique of the past,
set for you today by Paul,
any advice, Paul?
This is all about precision.
I think he's finished.
Okay, judges, I'm gonna have to ask you
to leave the tent.
Off you pop.
Okay, bakers,
for your technical challenge today,
Paul would love you to make a traditional
recipe from Cumberland, the Rum Nicky.
A large, sweet tart, this forgotten beauty
has a sweet shortcrust pastry base,
a rum-soaked fruity filling, a rather
tricky little lattice number on top.
Paul would like you to serve it
the classic way, with rum butter,
and you have an hour and a half.
-On your marks...
-Get set.
Bake.
I don't understand.
As usual, there's very little detail.
I've literally got no idea
what I'm doing, to be honest.
Cumberland Rum Nicky,
who has ever heard of this before?
Not me. It is forgotten,
and probably for a good reason.
They're looking for a really good
Rum Nicky, and I don't know what that is.
So Paul, why have you chosen
this Rum Nicky?
I came across this particular tart
about three years ago.
It's delicious.
Well, if you look
at the inside of that now,
it's all about joining the fruit together
to create this one mass.
You have the flavour of the rum,
you have the fruit,
which almost melts in the mouth.
-Mmm.
-The pastry is flaky.
It's lovely. And you can
really taste the rum.
The rum is king in this.
We're looking for something, it's gonna
taste of rum but not of alcohol.
Now, the lattice, it's gonna be
fascinating to see how they lattice.
If they totally enclose that pie with,
the alcohol cannot evaporate off.
Now, to make it
as it would've been done 230 years ago...
I expect them to take this pastry
right into the edge.
Okay, how long do they bake it for?
'Cause I know you didn't tell them that.
Thirty-five minutes in total.
That'll create a beautiful, golden pie.
[Prue] And have you given them a machine
to, erm, make the rum butter with?
I'm not a monster, Prue. Supplied them
with a wooden spoon and a bowl.
[Steven] So I'm just
chopping up this dried fruit,
and the instruction is,
"Mix the dried fruits, ginger, rum and
sugar together and then leave to soak."
[Liam] Pretty much
it's just a standard tart,
but it's just the filling
that's a bit odd.
[Stacey] To be honest with you,
this kind of
soaked-through rum thing is not my bag,
but I'll just, you know, wing it.
Oi, "Measure 50 ml," and they haven't
provided a measuring jug. Okay.
Anything even remotely useful
on the measuring front?
No.
Think about this, Steven, 50 ml.
To be fair, I like rum-soaked stuff.
I love rum.
[Steven] Little bit more for luck.
Mmm, this smells
like Christmas, doesn't it?
No more rum.
Whoo!
I'm going in.
Right, so, leave that to soak
and make the sweet shortcrust.
Let's get this done.
[Sophie] The recipe is,
it's really quite detailed,
so my instructions
for making the shortcrust pastry
are, "Make the shortcrust pastry."
[Liam] Well, it doesn't say how to do it,
but I've gotta combine my butter, my sugar
and my flour together, fingertips.
[Kate] You need to be careful
with shortcrust
that you don't overwork it, so like
a nice light rubbing action.
-I know this is a forgotten bake...
-Well, 'cause...
But fundamentally, it's a fruit tart
with a lattice...
It's an alcoholic fruit tart
with a lattice top.
What's not to like?
Sounds like a perfect drag queen,
if you ask me.
Mmm.
[Stacey] I've just added
a teaspoon of lemon juice,
and then one to two
teaspoons of cold water.
It should just be enough moisture
just to combine it.
[Liam] Do you know what, in all honesty,
the pastries that I made in the signature,
that's what I want now.
Right, let's get this tin lined.
Don't know if I'm doing the whole thing.
[Stacey] I'm just gonna have to
just cut it and hope for the best.
-Could you, mmm, yes.
-Mmm.
No, further, further, further, further.
Wow, you're quite bossy.
[Liam laughs]
Just using a bit of pastry
to get into all the nooks.
"Add the filling to the lined tin."
All the filling.
Then you add butter. That's quite curious.
Right bakers, you have 45 minutes
to finish your Rum Nicky
or if you want to be a bit more formal,
your Rum Nicholas.
If you have enough rum, you probably
do end up knickerless.
"Fourteen strip lattice with the
remaining pastry." Mmm, mmm, mmm, mmm.
I want 14 strips.
I'm just gonna have to go
with my gut instinct on this one.
This is definitely the hardest part
of the challenge for me,
without a shadow of a doubt.
[Stacey] I just do not know
how I'm, hell I'm gonna do that.
A very, very bad mess.
[exhales]
So, as per the instructions,
you arrange it
on a piece of greaseproof paper first.
The trick is to sort of
lay the strip across
and then fold back the other ones
that you didn't do last time.
[Kate] I think Steven's doing his
entirely different to mine.
He's doing some kind of pull-part one,
but I'm doing what I would call,
like, traditional lattice.
[Steven] Yeah, I did think about
doing it that way, but I like this way.
We're gonna run cuts
up the side for the pastry,
and as you pull the pastry apart,
you get lattice.
There's gotta be a quicker way to do this.
Oh, I don't know.
-What's happening here?
-Do you know what, I don't know.
Intricate latticework.
Intrutive. Yeah, but you know what,
I've just turned round
and Steven's doing something
entirely different.
-Is that good or bad?
-Well, it's obviously bad, isn't it...
Are you scared?
Because he knows
what he's doing, and I don't.
Maybe not, maybe you know
what you're doing.
Come on, now.
-No.
-[laughs] Come on, now.
[Stacey] Just wanna get
this lattice right, it's really important.
Really important.
Have I got 14?
I don't know.
Bakers, you only have half an hour
left to whip up your Rum Nicky.
I've got 30 minutes, for God's sake.
[Liam] Over, under, over.
Oh, I'm taking ages, man.
There, any idea? Arhh.
I think I've messed this up.
I hate this so much, hate it.
It should just be
enough latticework, but...
Too short.
Is this where it's gonna get a bit messy?
Oh, er, there. What on earth was that?
Do you know what,
this hasn't actually worked.
Right, we've got 20 minutes,
if that, to reroll this.
-Steven...
-Hi...
I can't help noticing
that you're doing your latticework again.
Yeah, it didn't work out, so I'm gonna
have to go back to the drawing board...
You all right there, you got time?
[sighs] I don't know how long
this thing bakes for, but hey-ho,
we'll just have to do our best.
[Sophie] I'm not really sure about this,
I'm thinking, um, I should cut
the rest of it off.
[Liam] I'm so bad at this.
[exhales]
[Steven] God, it's not easy, is it?
I'm putting on an egg wash now,
and then that is going to the oven.
[Sophie] Everyone else
is doing the whole dish,
and I'm the only one
that's done the inner part of it.
Hmm. Oh, gosh, I don't know.
[Liam] So ragged.
[exhales] I don't know what to do.
Right, it's going in.
Not the prettiest, which is annoying.
I've just whacked the temperature up
and I'll leave it.
Yeah, I've whacked
the temperature right up,
‘cause it's not gonna bake in time.
[Liam] Do I trim it?
What's your gut telling you?
I don't know, I don't know, I don't know.
You just have to trust your instincts.
It's so bad.
You're all right, don't panic.
[exhales]
Let's hope we can redeem ourselves
with some rum butter.
So it says, "Just make the rum butter,"
and then it's just got the ingredients.
Oh, atrocious.
So I'm doing 160 until the end.
I don't think it's going to be
in the oven long enough.
[exhales] I just took way too long
on the lattice.
Bakers, you have 10 minutes,
just 10 minutes,
to complete your technical challenge.
[Stacey] It just seems
like an awful lot of sugar.
Who the hell would wanna have this to eat?
But I remember it being quite grainy,
so I'm not expecting it to be mega-smooth.
[Kate] My God, I am absolutely sweating.
It's just not a butter. That can't
be right, it tastes disgusting.
I think maybe I'll just keep stirring it
until the end
and hopefully it gets less grainy.
I started this in 1792,
and I'm still going.
Bakers, you've got
just one minute left, one minute.
[Stacey] God, they do not
make your life easy.
[Kate] It's come together now,
it's nice and whippy.
[Steven exhales]
[Sophie] Rum butter's done,
I think we'll do all right.
I'm never doing this again.
[Steven] This is enough rum butter.
Thirty seconds.
[Steven] Stunning.
This is raw. Atrocious.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please bring your Rum Nickies
up to the gingham table.
[Liam] Raw, raw, raw.
[Noel] Paul and Prue are looking
for a thin pastry bottom,
a beautiful lattice top
and smooth rum butter,
and as usual, they won't know
whose Rum Nicky is whose.
[Paul] Right, we'll start
with the one at the end.
You needed to take the sides up
to the top of the plate,
that's a major issue.
The lattice is certainly not cooked and
I'll eat my hat if the bottom is cooked.
[Paul] Wow. We have a raw base.
[Prue] Yeah.
Pastry's very raw.
[Paul] It is.
[Prue] Right, well,
that was a disappointment.
[Paul] Now, the latticework
on this is even.
You need to leave gaps, to allow
the alcohol to evaporate.
[Prue] And again, I think it would be much
better if the pastry came to the edge.
[Paul] The rum flavour's there,
but the alcohol couldn't penetrate
through the sheer volume of lattice,
and a bit grainy
on the, um, rum butter, as well.
Now, moving on to number three,
this is more like it, a nice coverage of
the pastry, which goes right to the end.
The lattice is a bit sparse,
that's a little bit too thin,
but it has got the best colour,
it's nice and brown.
Mmm, I could just sit there
and eat a lot of that.
Er, it just looks a little bit
thrown together.
[Paul] Right, moving on to this,
lattice is very good,
er, needed less of them, right.
You can see how soft
that pastry is underneath.
[Prue] It's much more cooked
than I thought it would be.
I mean, the flavours are lovely.
-It looks neat.
-Yes, it looks very nice.
I think if it had had
a little longer in the oven,
it would be a pretty good pie.
[Paul] Moving on to the last one,
we have something
that's shrunk back slightly
from the sides,
but the colour's not bad on the edge.
They've so nearly got it to the end.
Mmm, yeah, it's just a little bit again
in the middle, but it's nearly done, yes.
Yeah, it's good. It's very nice
and thin, the pastry.
[Paul] Less alcohol in that one as well.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-You've got the flavour of the rum.
Very good.
Bit smoother on the butter as well.
[Prue] This is perfect rum butter.
[Sandi] Prue and Paul will now rank the
Rum Nickies from the worst to the best.
Okay, in fifth place is this one.
Liam, obviously it needed to go
in the oven for longer,
because it's quite raw.
In fourth place is this one.
Sophie, the lattice looks absolutely
beautiful, but it is too closed.
In third position is this one.
Too many lattice strips.
It said 14, so we did 14.
Thirteen, 14, 15.
Oh, 15. Oh. I've always had
a problem with maths.
Right, in second place is this one here.
Kate, this is absolutely delicious.
The rum butter is the best we've seen.
So, in first place is this one.
Nice gaps between the lattice,
and the balance of flavours in the fruit
and the rum is perfect.
Although your butter's
a little bit grainy.
That was unexpected.
I feel incredible, I do feel a little bit
like I cheated, though.
I just threw it in the oven,
and it came first. But, I'll take it.
I hope it's redeemed me
a little bit from this morning,
because if I'd done really bad,
I'd have to do something spectacular
tomorrow to even be considered to stay.
[Stacey] To come third in the technical
is great at this late stage,
so tomorrow I'll have to get
my head down and go for it.
Every element needs to be pukka.
I don't think anyone says
"pukka" any more, but, pukka.
I'm really not happy. All in all, probably
the worst day I've had actually so far,
so not great to be pulling that
sort of thing out in the quarter-finals.
I hate coming last. I'm just gonna have to
pull it out of the bag again.
Yeah, I gotta do a vintage Liam.
[Noel] One challenge left before Paul
and Prue choose star baker,
and decide who must miss out
on a place in the semi-final.
[Sandi] I don't know
if I can stand the tension.
Quarter-finals, you think you might know
who's gonna get in to the top
and it's all over the place.
I think Steven has had a bit of a dip,
he's coming back now, strong,
coming into the semi-finals next week.
This is the time to get good.
But Stacey, handshake from her clanger.
The pastries, the shape, the flavour,
it ticked all the boxes.
I would absolutely love Stacey
to make it to star baker,
‘cause she's worked so hard to get there.
I think Liam, Sophie and Kate are all
in a little bit of trouble.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-Kate didn't do too well in the signature.
[Sandi] But she came back,
‘cause her Rum Nicky was...
-[Prue] Second.
-Second.
[Paul] I'd like
to see Liam in the semi-final,
but coming last in the technical,
automatically puts you
into a difficult position,
and I think Sophie's
in quite a bit of trouble.
Who could believe this?
Her char siu pork was, was okay,
but she was fourth in the technical,
and I think Sophie has the capability
of saving herself,
but it's down to the showstopper.
If they wanna get through
to the semi-final next week,
they've got to pull their socks up and
create something that's pure magic.
Morning, bakers.
For your showstopper challenge today,
we're heading back to Victorian times,
so I'm going up a blinking chimney,
and Sandi will not be amused.
Today, the judges would like you to make
a Victorian favourite, the Savoy Cake.
Now, I'm not gonna
lie to you, traditionally,
this banqueting centrepiece
was rather inedible,
but Prue and Paul would like you
to make a light, delicate sponge
baked in an elaborate mould
with a hard sugar coating.
Your Savoy Cake can be
any flavour you want,
but to create that Victorian drama,
must be served on a plinth,
also created from sponge.
So, you need a bit of sponge engineering,
you need to be the Brunel of baking.
[Noel] You have three-and-a-half hours.
[Sandi and Noel]
On your marks, get set, bake!
[Steven] The last bake
before the semi-finals is big anyway.
It doesn't make it any easier the fact
that this is a complete unknown,
this cake.
I don't think one's been seen
since about 1890.
I don't really think this is like
any other cake I've kind of had before.
It's a bit of a weird one, this, isn't it?
[Sophie] Not a great day yesterday.
I like to come back to cakes,
I don't like stodgy, old-fashioned pastry.
I like pretty things.
A Victorian Savoy Cake would've been an
amazing centrepiece, a real showstopper,
and that's what we want from our bakers,
but it was very seldom eaten.
We want them to taste amazing as well.
This is gonna be a little bit tricky.
Traditionally, the Savoy Cake is made
in quite an elaborate mould,
but there's no rising agent in there,
there's no fat in there,
so the blending of the whites
and the yolks is critical,
because if they beat that thing to death,
the whole thing will collapse.
This cake was produced actually
for the kings and queens at the time.
Now, we're asking them to produce
exactly the same standard,
but for the gingham altar.
This has to be absolutely exquisite.
[Sandi] The Savoy Cake rose to prominence
during the 19th century,
and featured among
the sweet entremets of a Victorian dinner.
In order to achieve its impressive height,
a number of intricate
and elaborate moulded cakes
were stacked up on a base plinth cake.
The sponge texture was light and delicate,
and flavoured with lemon or orange zest.
Although sometimes lightly decorated,
the naked sponge was the star,
featuring a smooth,
thin coating of hard baked sugar,
which would preserve the cake for weeks,
or sometimes months.
At the moment, I am just cracking
an awful lot of eggs.
Absolutely at capacity.
[Sandi] Savoy Cake batter is made
by carefully folding whisked egg-whites
into an egg yolk and flour mixture.
You're just relying
on the power of the eggs.
I'm so desperate to rush,
but if I rush this,
it's just gonna knock all the air out
and it'll just end up...
I don't wanna know
what it'll end up looking like.
[Sandi] Stacey, however,
isn't holding back.
I've got a lot to do in
a very, very, very short space of time.
If I didn't give myself a lot to do,
then it wouldn't be me, would it?
[Noel] Not only is Stacey doing
two different-flavoured sponges,
she's loading her heart-shaped Savoy Cake
with macarons, madeleines, jellies
and swirled meringues.
-[Sandi] It's gonna be a pain.
-Why have you gone
and made it so complicated?
I'll tell you why, erm,
because it's week eight,
and it's a showstopper for week eight.
-Mmm.
-And I just wanna go all out.
I really think you look well-organised.
Let's see.
[Prue] I think it's possible
you'll pull it off, so--
-Let's see.
-Let's see, Stacey, good luck.
Oh, thank you. Right, where am I?
"Add the zest of a lemon."
[Sandi] Stacey, Liam and Sophie
are flavouring their cakes
the Victorian way, with citrus zest.
I'm also gonna put a little bit
of yuzu powder and yuzu juice.
[Liam] The main flavours
are lemon and elderflower.
[Sandi] But not everyone
is sticking with tradition.
[Steven] Chestnut purée, rum and orange
are the overarching flavours.
Our job here today is to take
what essentially is a plain, boring,
tasteless, inedible cake
and make it like delicious.
Easy.
[Sandi] Candied nuts
and 16 hand-crafted fondant flowers
will bedeck Steven's chestnut rum cake,
filled with cinnamon apples.
The chestnut didn't make
the Savoy Cake too heavy?
No, what the chestnut purée does is
just add a little bit of structure to it,
but it does add
a little bit of flavour as well.
-Good luck with the Savoy Cake.
-Thank you.
[Steven] I hope I've ticked
the flavour box today,
because, you know, I'm not going stupidly
elaborate with the design on this,
it's gonna be classic
and simple and beautiful,
so I do wanna make sure
that the flavours are there.
I'm doing pecan and caramel,
I really, really love the flavours of it,
and I think it's a chance to,
to update the Savoy Cake.
[Paul] Good morning, Kate, how are you?
[Prue] Good morning, Kate.
Morning, good, thanks.
Tell us all about your Savoy Cake.
I'm gonna do, erm,
the Liver Building turrets.
Brilliant, you're star baker,
thank you very much indeed.
[all laugh]
[Noel] Chocolate decorations will adorn
Kate's six-sponge Liverpool landmark,
topped with a silver fondant Liver Bird.
I'm not using like a traditional bun tin,
I'm going for an assembly
of many shapes and sizes.
-How many eggs is it?
-Sixty.
-Sixty eggs.
-Yeah.
Wow.
This one was particularly painful
for the chicken,
it took a little bit
of the chicken with it.
-You've practised this.
-Yeah.
-You can get it done in time.
-Yeah, mmm-hmm.
-It's the semi-final week next week.
-Go big or go home.
Exactly.
Oh, 51.
[Noel] Whilst Liam won't be impressing
the judges with size,
he's hoping a little magic will keep him
from going home.
Savoy Cake's all about witchcraft
and wizardry.
If I had a magic wand,
I would propel myself to next week.
[Noel] Liam's hoping
to leave the judges spellbound
with his three-tiered Savoy Cake,
festooned with spun sugar magic,
a chocolate wand and bottles of enchanting
bourbon caramel sauce.
Have you had problems with getting
the cakes out of the mould?
-First time, yeah, I did.
-You did.
Yeah, first time I did, but you have to,
like, absolutely pack it
with loads of icing sugar,
so it doesn't like stay in there.
So hopefully, it does come out today.
[Steven] I'm lining it with vegetable fat.
What I'm gonna do then
is coat it with icing sugar.
The idea is that when it bakes,
you're gonna get like a crust of sugar.
[Sandi] Prue and Paul will be looking
for a sugar crust that's thin,
crisp and perfectly smooth.
There's a little bit missing there,
so I'm just making sure
that the whole thing is lined.
And this is the most vital part,
grease it up.
[Sandi] To give the Savoy Cake
its intricate detail...
Then zhoosh it around.
...the bakers must make sure their batter
gets into every nook and cranny.
[Steven] I'm just
gently pouring this batter in.
This is a particularly intricate scene
and I've had varying degrees
of success with this at home.
I just have to keep my fingers crossed
on this one.
[Sophie] I read that they would
cover them in parchment,
so that the mixture
would sort of stay in the tin.
I'm going right to the edges.
I like to be authentic.
[Noel] The plinth in Sophie's
historically accurate cake
will be sandwiched with yuzu buttercream,
circled by a croquembouche, all topped
with a chocolate showpiece.
I'm doing a sort of flower, essentially,
so I'm doing petals and then gluing them
around a little ball.
-[Paul] All out of chocolate?
-All out of chocolate, yes.
Impressive, you've obviously
practised this?
-Yeah.
-[Sandi] That was quite a high "Yeah".
Yeah, yeah. I have practised it.
It hasn't come out looking
as beautiful as I would like.
-Yeah.
-But hopefully it'll look good enough.
Right, this baby is going in.
[Sophie] Everything's gonna go in
at the same time,
because I've got
a lot of choux buns to do,
I'll need the oven
as soon as I can, basically.
[Steven] Oven door doesn't get opened
until at least an hour,
I'm not touching it,
because as soon as you open it,
and let some of that heat out,
the risk is it will collapse.
-[Sandi] Cakes in the oven...
-Cakes in, macaroons.
...the bakers can focus
on their trimmings.
That is choux pastry. Well, it will be.
[Sandi] All except for Kate, who's got
four more cakes to make.
[Kate] This is batch number two.
I've got a lot to do,
in comparison to everyone else,
who's doing a single-tier one or whatever.
Just gotta go for it anyway.
[Steven] I'm gonna flip this,
so you might wanna stand back.
You don't want a hot nut
in your face, do you?
[Stacey] I'm making macaroons.
There's a lot to do still,
but so far, I'm fine.
This is the bourbon spice caramel.
It's a case of smashing this one today.
[Sophie] This is
the green apple Crème Diplomat,
that's gonna go inside the choux buns.
Hey Sophs, wow. You've got quite
a nice green going on there.
Yeah.
[Noel] I think that's quite
a good showstopper for you.
I hope, 'cause I had
a terrible day yesterday.
[Noel] Quite tricky, isn't it?
It's not your kitchen.
It's more space than there is
in my kitchen, a lot more there.
-Do you not live in a tent?
-No. Almost.
I live in a tent, yeah, identical to this.
Bakers, you have
one-and-a-half hours left.
[Sandi] We wanna see those Savoy Cakes.
[Steven] Check out that bad boy.
Cool.
-Done.
-Pretty happy.
I think I'm gonna try
and turn it out.
Shall we see
what the first one looks like?
I just hope it comes out.
[Steven] If it doesn't, then we're done.
Game over, mate.
Sometimes it stays and sometimes
it doesn't, so we will see.
Dun-dun-da!
A little bit left behind.
I can live with that.
Anything.
[Noel] This looks nice.
-It's not bad, I've got a bit of hole-age.
-Hole-age?
But you know what, overall,
I've got a sugar crust.
Look at that, look at that.
Beautiful. That should be okay.
I mean, it's got the sugar crust,
but I would've liked it
a bit more even all around.
[laughing]
No, I feel really happy.
Right, okay, so,
make the second Savoy Cake.
This is the plinth, so this is what
the rum cake is gonna sit on.
[Liam] It's just the same mixture
as I did before.
[Kate] The final batch, I'm just
adding the pecan nuts to it.
How many eggs are you through?
All of them. I'm just doing mine
with a side of omelette.
[Sophie] It's sort of like getting
the consistency of the choux right,
so it can be piped but it's not too thick.
Feel like I'm panning for gold.
[Kate] That's my plinth, there.
It's a huge cake tin.
[Liam] I'll give it, like, half an hour.
[Stacey] That's gonna go there,
that's gonna go there, get on with it.
[Steven] That's gonna go in
for about 45 minutes.
And right now, we're gonna get
some beautiful decorating done.
That's the choux pastry done
and then I've got to pipe it out,
and then as soon as my support cakes
are out of the oven,
I can then put the choux buns in.
[Kate] My plans for decoration, cut out a
Liver Bird, and the story behind them is,
if the Liver Birds ever leave Liverpool,
it'll be no more.
[Liam] I'm just making my wands.
I piped some chocolate
into the straws,
I'm gonna freeze them, and once
they're set, I'm gonna poke them out.
[Stacey] This is my favourite thing to do,
jelly-making.
Get them in the fridge, done, and then,
it's just buttercream,
madeleines, meringues.
[exhales] I forgot this.
Okay, the other one's gonna come out.
[Steven] These are sugar paste roses,
I did 150 of them
for my mum's 60th cake last year,
and it took me two days, but if I can just
get 'em to look like roses, I'll be happy.
[Sophie] Choux buns, gonna go in.
[Stacey] Right, let's have
a look at this cake. Not far off.
I just broke the oven.
[bleeping]
Oven door's come off.
I'm panicking. I'm taking it out.
[Steven] Can she share mine at 150?
No, no, no, you carry on.
It's all right,
I'll just hold it like this.
Could do with maybe a minute or two longer
but hopefully it won't deflate.
[Kate] What happened to Stacey?
[Steven] Her oven broke.
-Her oven broke?
-[Steven] Yeah.
Oh, my God.
[exhales]
Queen Victoria, Prince Albert,
you be Prince Albert.
Bakers, you have one hour left
to finish your sponge plinths.
Wow, it's more like Angela Merkel.
Everything was going so well.
[Steven] Perfect.
[Liam] The only thing
I'm not pleased about is
that my plinth's a lot darker
than these two.
[Steven] Not bad.
[Kate] Plinth's stuck in the, erm, mould.
Just carry on and I'll see if I can try
and decorate my way round this.
Oops, I'm going to take it out.
Yeah, I think we're just about okay.
So, let me just try and regroup,
is there any ovens on and spare?
[Kate] This is gonna be
for the chocolate decorations.
I'm gonna make a chocolate clock.
I'm going to make little petals and
hopefully make a chocolate flower.
I do like to do this kind of stuff.
[Steven] Should do another one.
[Stacey] Fifteen minutes, now I wanna
check my macaroons.
I've had to use another oven,
but luckily there is another oven to use,
so we're all right.
Let's get madeleining, shall we?
[Sophie] Get them in the fridge to chill.
Mmm.
[Stacey] See if we can
get these babies in.
The main thing now, get the meringues in.
I've got two minutes
to get them in the oven.
You think you've got more time
than you have. All of a sudden, it...
[whooshes]
[Sophie] I've got to fill
all my choux buns and
then I've got to assemble
my chocolate flower.
Still quite a lot to do.
[Liam] This is certainly not the time
for shaky hands. Gotta keep composed.
[gasps] Oh God, oh no.
I've killed the Liver Bird off.
I picked it up, to move it,
and it just went...
[sighs] Oh, dear. I seem to have
jinxed myself regularly, don't I?
[Liam] It's a bit lopsided.
[Kate] So, this is improvisation,
I'm just gonna make a chocolate instead.
Savoy-oy, bakers, you have
30 minutes left, 30 minutes.
[Stacey]
The meringues are in the oven,
so there's not a lot I can do
about it now.
[Liam] Okay, so, spun sugar.
[Sophie] Taking ages,
but they're getting there.
Right, sir, have you come for your shave?
What is this, darling, what is it?
-It's, it's fats, so I, I...
-Oh.
-This is really stressful.
-[Liam] It's the finishing touches,
it's really weird
that I've finished kinda early.
But you've done great for time,
it's not like you're rushing now.
Yeah, it's a bit weird. In all honesty,
I've actually never timed this.
Okay. I won't tell anybody.
[Sophie] Just got a few that I've dipped
in freeze-dried strawberries
and in pearl sugar.
[Steven] Without realising it,
this is probably
something that the Victorians
would've appreciated.
[exhales]
The macaroons are a bit big, but it
doesn't matter, big's better than small.
The spun sugar, er, now, it's just
gonna dissolve. Tsss. Yeah.
Ugh, I keep dropping them.
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
Five minutes before you have
to present your Savoy Cake.
Argh.
This is gonna get done
by the skin of my teeth.
[Kate] Don't drop it.
Mmm.
No, they're not great. They're
just not ready, they're not cooked.
I don't even know if I should
put them on, to be honest.
[Liam] Do you know if Paul and Prue
could see it before the sugar melts?
Please, please, please, please.
[Sophie] Cutting it fine.
Oh, my God, that's just cracked.
Bakers, that is it, your time is up.
Please place your showstopper Savoy Cakes
at the end of your station.
Can I just do [stammering] ten more?
Sophie, stop!
Stopped, I've stopped.
Almost.
It's like this much left. [exhales]
[birds chirping]
[Sandi] It's judgement time
for the Victorian centrepieces.
But these Savoy Cakes will need
to taste as good as they look.
Wow, Stacey, it really has got
about 20 elements to it, hasn't it?
I'm very impressed that you've got
all the cakes out quite cleanly.
There's a nice shiny sugar crust.
But you struggled with the meringue.
Yeah, it... They weren't done in time.
-But overall I think it's very you.
-[Paul] Stacey.
-[Sandi] It's very Stacey. It...
-Victorian Stacey.
[Paul] And we've got the orange one
on the top, is that right?
Yeah.
[Paul] It's got a nice texture.
Great flavour.
-Mmm.
-Really nice flavour,
the texture's amazing, and the orange
comes through well.
Now, this is your lemon one,
is that right?
[Prue] Yep. Very good texture.
It's not as well flavoured
as the other, is it?
[Paul] It's there, it's not as potent
as the orange one.
So, you've got madeleines, you've got
macarons, you've got some jelly.
The mandarins are a little bit flat,
but you've got the raspberry right
in the middle of that, haven't you?
[Prue] Mmm. Yeah, the raspberry's
very nice, but the macarons,
because they've been sandwiched
with the curd have got very soggy.
The macarons I don't particularly like,
I don't think they're well baked.
[Prue] Have you tried a hard jelly?
Very nice.
[Paul] I think overall, you've just gone
slightly OTT on the decoration.
But your two cakes are good.
And it's a massive work,
probably a titch overambitious,
but I think it's a real achievement.
[Paul] I think it looks
a little bit haphazard.
[Prue] It's a bit topsy-turvy.
I like the decoration
of the sugar, that's fine,
but you can see what's happened,
that over time we, it will collapse,
humidity gets to it, destroys it.
-So it's elderflower.
-Elderflower and lemon.
It's quite dense.
Yeah.
Almost like
you've overmixed it, you know?
-Yeah.
-[Prue] I think you did.
But I'm just not catching
any flavours at all.
Okay.
The most flavour you get from this is
if you happen to get a bit of caramel.
It's a little disappointing.
[Paul] It is a little bit.
The top layer is better than the bottom,
I think the bottom one is burnt.
-A quarter-final, you want...
-[Liam] Yeah.
Consistency.
I think you've had a really great idea,
Liam, don't think you quite pulled it off.
Sophie, I think that is a perfect shape
of a Victorian Savoy Cake.
It's nice and high,
it's spectacular to look at,
and the chocolate top is magnificent.
[Paul] It's very, very clever.
If you break through, you've got
your plinth down at the bottom down there,
which is sandwiched as well,
so you've given that a flavour.
It's well baked all the way through,
you've got a nice sugar coating
on the top of it as well,
and I love the design.
You've celebrated the Savoy Cake,
which I like.
Right, I'm gonna take a slice out of this.
-The texture of the cake is quite chewy.
-[Sophie] Okay.
But it's very pleasant.
I love the flavour. I just think,
when you mixed it,
you may have just turned it
a couple of more times than you needed to.
-Okay.
-And you've lost that air.
But you're not far off it.
-[Prue] Remind me what's in there?
-Er, green apple Crème Diplomat.
Mmm, I love that green apple, really good.
I love that whole cake, actually.
Thank you.
Very elegant, very simple.
-Mmm.
-Very small.
It makes you question, what have you
spent the last few hours making?
All the time's been spent on the roses,
and they do look beautiful.
It's very elegant.
[Prue] I must say that your sugar coating
looks really good,
and I do think you've been very clever,
'cause those walnuts
perfectly fit the mould.
That's beautifully done.
-Now, right in the middle there you have--
-They're cinnamon apples.
Lovely cinnamon apple.
-Not what I expected.
-No, but it is delicious,
and the texture, I think, is lovely.
It's actually very brave of you
to put the chestnuts in there,
because chestnut in itself
is quite a heavy thing.
Yeah.
But actually it hasn't affected
the texture too much,
it's still quite light, but for me,
if you're gonna put chestnut in it,
get the flavour to come out,
'cause it hasn't.
-Okay.
-But nevertheless, very pretty design.
Thank you.
Kate, please bring up your Savoy Cake.
Do you want some help?
Yes, please.
-Ready?
-Yep, ready.
This is like the weirdest removal firm.
-I can see what it is, with the top...
-Mmm.
...of the Liver Building,
but it's a bit simplistic.
The bottom plinth
has had a few major issues.
Yeah, it didn't turn out properly.
These seem to have caught again.
It's all a bit broken up.
[Prue] I do think
it's a bit rough and ready,
but I like the fact
that she's got the height.
Yeah, yeah. It's a bold piece.
The sugar coating on it's good,
but look how yellow that is.
Sixty eggs have made that
very, very yellow.
It's a bit dry, actually.
[Prue] Mmm, I was wondering
if it's a bit overcooked, in fact.
Mmm, I think it could be.
[Prue] Oh, that's the one
with pecans in it.
That's a much better cake.
-That's delicious.
-[Prue] It's moister, too.
Mmm. I'm biased anyway,
'cause I love the Liver Building,
but star of the show
is that third one down.
-I just think all the others, too dry.
-Okay.
[Noel] Wow, what a week.
It's been a tremendous week.
So, I know that Stacey has been
really scrapping for star baker.
Is it possible?
I think it's certainly possible, because
Stacey has done remarkably well.
I just think she attempted
slightly too much.
Having said that, this was about
the Savoy Cake and they tasted amazing.
However, I think Steven
is the favourite coming into today
and he did create something
that technically was very good.
The flowers, perfect, the leaves
are great, the cake is well-made.
-Mmm.
-But the chestnut didn't get the flavour.
Well, let's focus on the ones
who are in trouble.
Sophie, perhaps, has saved herself?
[Prue] Oh, Sophie's
definitely saved herself.
Nobody who can make a cake like that
can possibly go home.
So, Liam and Kate are in a bit of trouble.
When you look at Kate's,
she's used pretty basic moulds,
and it's quite rudimentary,
the decoration as well.
And she'd dried out a couple
of the sponges,
but the pecan one was particularly good.
Whereas the elderflower in Liam's one,
you didn't think came through.
I couldn't taste anything.
And then he put sugar-work on something
that was gonna stand for
a long period of time, and it collapsed.
But she didn't do as well
in her signatures as Liam.
His clangers were very good.
So it seems to me
you keep balancing out things.
It goes like that all the time.
-Mmm.
-Yeah, we have to break it down,
go through the checklist again,
and then decide.
There's something lovely, Paul,
about sitting here
listening to you talk
in front of the Liver Bird.
-Oh, isn't it?
-There you go.
And you just ate his head.
Wow, it was so pretty,
up until that minute.
Congratulations, bakers,
on surviving forgotten bakes week.
Now, I've got the great job this week
of announcing star baker.
The person who's won star baker this week
made clangers with their trademark twist,
and made a Savoy Cake that
had fabulous texture and flavour.
The star baker this week is...
Stacey.
Cor. Yay. Thank you.
So, that leaves me
with just the worst job.
Well done to all of you
for getting through to the quarter-finals,
but I'm afraid the person going home is...
-Liam.
-It's cool.
-I'm so sorry.
It's in all fairness, like, I can
look back, probably tomorrow morning,
I think, yeah, I smashed it.
Onwards and upwards now.
It's not the end of me, yeah,
this is just the beginning,
Do you know what I mean, so,
I'm coming for Paul Hollywood's job
in a couple of years' time.
Don't stop baking, all right?
[Paul] So sorry to lose Liam,
he's learnt a lot.
From the beginning to now, he's a
different baker, totally different baker.
He's done really well
to reach the quarter-final,
and should feel very proud of himself.
But he had a bad showstopper,
and that's what it came down to.
-Fantastic.
-Well, thank you.
So glad you did it,
because you've been so close, so often.
Thank you very much.
Stacey has wanted star baker so badly.
Her last few weeks she's got closer
and closer, and this week, bingo.
-Well done, Stace.
-Thank you.
-Well done.
Well done.
[Paul] Coming into the semi-final now,
this is the time to get star baker,
and she's started to nail it this week.
Her Savoy Cake tasted amazing.
Did not think I would end up
in week nine, no way, week nine.
I'd like to say that I'm gonna
tone it down for next week,
but actually I'm not. At all.
[theme music playing]